Add a LWR adaptivity tutorial (#1061)
neams-th-coe/cardinal: doc/content/tutorials/openmc_amr.md

To access this tutorial,

```
cd cardinal/tutorials/lwr_amr
```

!alert! note title=Computing Needs
The full assembly case requires [!ac](HPC) due to the number of elements in the tally mesh, both before and after the application
of [!ac](AMR). You can run the OpenMC problem with a reduced number of particles, however the mesh may not refine due to
the large tally relative errors caused by poor stastistics. We include a section on running [!ac](AMR) on a single pin of
the assembly mesh if you don't have access to [!ac](HPC) resources - this example can be found in [#pincell].
!alert-end!

## Geometry and Computational Models id=model

This model consists of a single UO$_2$ assembly from the 3D C5G7 extension case in [!cite](c5g7), where control
rods are fully inserted in the assembly to induce strong axial and radial gradients. Instead of using the multi-group
cross sections from the C5G7 benchmark specifications, the material properties in [!cite](c5g7_materials) are used.
At a high level the geometry consists of the following lattice elements (in a 17x17 grid):

- 264 fuel pins composed of UO$_2$ pellets clad in zirconium with a helium gap;

> - 24 control rods composed of BC$_4$ pellets clad in aluminum (with no gap) which occupy the assembly guide tubes;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 24 control rods composed of B$_4$C pellets clad in aluminum (with no gap) which occupy the assembly guide tubes;
```

Reviewer: I haven't looked at the specs, but I've always seen boron carbide absorbers given as B_4C. If this is wrong, then disregard!

Author: Whoops, that's a typo on my part. It should be B_4C

| Pin pitch | 1.26 |
| Fuel height | 192.78 |
| Reflector thickness | 21.42 |

A total core power of 3000 MWth is assumed uniformly distributed among 273 rodded fuel assemblies, each with 264 pins (which do not have a
uniform power distribution due to the control rods). The unstructured mesh tallies added by Cardinal will therefore be normalized
according to the per-assembly power:

\begin{equation}
\label{eq:1}
q_{as}=\frac{3000\text{\ MWth}}{n_a}
\end{equation}

where $n_a=273$ is the number of fuel assemblies in the core.

### OpenMC Model id=openmc

OpenMC's Python [!ac](API) is used to generate the [!ac](CSG) model for this [!ac](LWR) assembly. We begin by defining the
geometric specification of the assembly. This is followed by the creation of materials for each of the regions
described in the previous section, where the helium gap is assumed to be well represented by a void region. We then define the geometry
for each pincell (fuel, control rod in guide tube, fission chamber, reflector water) which are used to define the 17x17 lattice
for both the active fuel region and the reflector. The sides and bottom of the assembly use reflective boundary conditions while

> the top of the assembly uses a vacuum boundary condition. The OpenMC model can be found in [assembly_amr_openmc]. The Python script used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the top of the assembly uses a vacuum boundary condition (in other words, we are modeling only half the axial extent of the bundle). The OpenMC model can be found in [assembly_amr_openmc]. The Python script used
```

!listing /tutorials/lwr_amr/mesh.i
  end=[Mesh]

After defining the geometric properties and discretization parameters we define the four different pincells in the `[Mesh]` block using the
[PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/source/meshgenerators/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.html) -
the workhorse of the [Reactor module](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/modules/reactor/index.html). We set `preserve_volumes = true` in an
attempt to preserve the volume of each region, which ensures that our tallied volumetric fission power is consistent with the OpenMC geometry.

!listing /tutorials/lwr_amr/mesh.i
  start=[UO2_Pin]
  end=[UO2_Assembly]

After defining each pincell, these distinct regions are combined into a 2D assembly mesh using a
[PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/source/meshgenerators/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator.html).

!listing /tutorials/lwr_amr/mesh.i
  start=[UO2_Assembly]
  end=[Delete_Blocks]

The fuel-cladding gap blocks are deleted after the assembly mesh is generated - this is due to these regions being modelled as voids in OpenMC

> and so they will not receive any tallies. We finish the mesh generation process by translating the assembly mesh such that it's center is located at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and so they will not receive any tallies (in other words, we are simply reducing some memory needed to keep unused parts of the mesh, though you could certainly keep those mesh blocks if you desired). We finish the mesh generation process by translating the assembly mesh such that it's center is located at
```

processes/threads, or simply decrease the number of particles used in OpenMC. When the simulation has completed, you will have created
a number of different output files:

- `openmc_out.e`: an Exodus mesh with the tally results;
- `openmc_out.csv`: a [!ac](CSV) file with the results reported by the [TallyRelativeError](TallyRelativeError.md) postprocessors.

[assembly_amr_init_res] shows the resulting fission power computed by OpenMC on the mesh tally added by Cardinal. We can see
that the radial power distribution peaks near the corners of the assembly (due to the reflective boundary conditions), and is
depressed near the guide tubes due to the insertion of the control rods. The center of the assembly sees some additional power
peaking due to the fission chamber. The power distribution within the assembly begins to decrease along the z-axis as one moves
from the assembly centerline to the vacuum boundary condition. The coarse axial discretization makes it difficult to determine
if this follows the standard cosine shape, and the lack of radial refinement fails to capture gradients within each pincell. This

> motivates the use of [!ac](AMR) to automatically refine the tally mesh. This block consists of two sub-blocks. The first is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
motivates the use of [!ac](AMR) to automatically refine the tally mesh. 

To add [!ac](AMR), we add two sub-blocks. The first is the
```

these error estimates to mark elements for refinement or coarsening. Two steps of mesh adaptivity are selected with `steps = 2`,
and `error_combo` is selected to be the marker to use when modifying the mesh.

!listing /tutorials/lwr_amr/openmc_amr.i
  block=Adaptivity

In this adaptivity block we define a single indicator which
assumes that the spatial error in an element is proportional to the mean optical depth within the element (`optical_depth`). This
indicator requires a tally score to use for computing the energy-integrated reaction rate in an element - we select the `fission`
reaction rate as we aim to optimize the spatial distribution of fission heating. It also requires an estimate of the mean chord
length in the element (`h_type`) which we set to the maximum vertex separation in an element due to the coarse axial discretization
in our initial mesh.

We then add three markers, the first of which is a
[ErrorFractionMarker](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/source/markers/ErrorFractionMarker.html) (`depth_frac`) which takes `optical_depth`
as an input. This marker sorts all elements into descending order based on the indicator value, then iterates over the list

> (starting with the largest error estimate). Elements who's optical depth sum to a refinement fraction multiplied by the total

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(starting with the largest error estimate). Elements whose optical depth sum to a refinement fraction multiplied by the total
```

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
```

We can see that `avg_rel_err` starts at ~1% on the first iteration and jumps to ~4% on the second iteration, which is corroborated by
`num_elem` quadrupling on this step (from 46240 to 194080) indicating that a large amount of refinement is taking place.
This behavior slows down on the third step as the number of elements remaining that meet both the spatial refinement criteria (optical depth)
and the statistical error requirement (relative error less than 5%) are limited, and so the average relative error only increases to ~6% while another
52619 elements are added. Looking at `max_rel_err` we can also see that some elements meet the statistical error criteria before refinement,
but after refinement their relative error overshoots the maximum error threshold and so the maximum relative error in the problem jumps to
~20%. We can see this behavior in [assembly_amr_res] where the heat source is initially refined semi-uniformly over the domain. Then, the
elements near the core centerline and the edges of the assembly are marked for refinement due to an increase in the estimated optical depth

> from higher fission rates. After the third iteration the edge of the assembly nearest to the vacuum boundary and the corners of thee assembly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from higher fission rates. After the third iteration the edge of the assembly nearest to the vacuum boundary and the corners of the assembly
```

are marked for coarsening due to the jump in relative error. Running the simulation with additional particles per batch or more active batches
would further decrease the per-element relative error and allow for added refinement steps. The jumps in relative error above the upper limit of 10%
can also be mitigated by decreasing the refinement threshold in `rel_error` from 5% to 1%.

!media assembly_amr_res.gif
  id=assembly_amr_res
  caption=Elements marked for refinement (left), fission power (middle), and elements marked for coarsening (right) for the [!ac](LWR) assembly
  over multiple adaptivity cycles.
  style=width:100%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto

## Single Pincell id=pincell

> In this section, we seggregate a single pin from the corner of the assembly mesh to tally and run adaptivity on. The mesh input file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we isolate a single pin from the corner of the assembly mesh to tally and run adaptivity on. The mesh input file
```
